.\" (do I need this?)  \# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH dvdbackup 1 "2008-03-18" "0.2"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
dvdbackup \- Tool to backup DVDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dvdbackup
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B dvdbackup
command.
This manual page was written for the Debian distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
\fBdvdbackup\fP is a tool to extract data from video DVDs.  It has the
advantages of being small, fast, and easy to use.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
print a brief usage message
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
print version information
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-info
for information about the DVD
.TP
.B \-M, \-\-mirror
backup the whole DVD
.TP
.B \-F, \-\-feature
backup the main feature of the DVD
.TP
.B \-T X, \-\-titleset=X
backup title set X
.TP
.B \-t X, \-\-title=X
backup title X
.TP
.B \-s X, \-\-start=X
backup from chapter X
.TP
.B \-e X, \-\-end=X
backup to chapter X
.TP
.B \-i DEVICE, \-\-input=DEVICE
where DEVICE is your DVD device.  This switch only needs to be used if your DVD
device node is not /dev/dvd
.TP
.B \-o DIRECTORY, \-\-output=DIRECTORY
where DIRECTORY is your backup target.  If not given, the current working
directory will be used.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
print more information about progress
.TP
.B \-n NAME, \-\-name=NAME
(optional) set the title \- useful if autodetection fails
.TP
.B \-a 0, \-\-aspect=0
to get aspect ratio 4:3 instead of 16:9 if both are present
.TP
.B  \-r {a,b,m}, \-\-error={a,b,m}
select read error handling:
a=abort,
b=skip block,
m=skip multiple blocks (default)
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-progress
print progress information while copying VOBs
.TP
.B \-\-gaps
sample existing backup files against the DVD, report how many sectors were
zero-filled or missing before and after the refresh, print how many sectors
were refilled, and refill only those gaps without truncating matching content
.TP
.B \-\-gap-strategy=\fIMODE\fR
control how gap refill traverses the missing blocks: choose from
\fBforward\fR, \fBreverse\fR, \fBoutside-in\fR, or \fBrandom\fR (default is
forward)
.TP
.B \-\-gap-random-seed=\fIN\fR
set a deterministic seed for the \fBrandom\fR gap strategy (default 0)
.TP
.B \-\-cmp
compare an existing backup directory against the DVD without modifying the
destination files. This currently requires that
.B \-M
is supplied and no other copy mode is active.
.TP
.B \-\-gap-map
collect an ASCII scratch map while comparing. The output is a 20x60 polar grid
where rows run from the inner hub to the outer edge and columns approximate the
angle around the disc. Cells marked with '#\&' correspond to sectors that were
zero-filled or missing locally. This option is read-only, implies compare mode
and refuses to run together with
.B \-\-gaps
or any writing mode.
.PP
The printed summary line reports how many sectors were flagged and what
percentage of the scanned surface that represents.
.TP
.B \-\-no-overwrite
abort if the target title directory already exists
.SH Option notes
.B \-a
is option to the
.B \-F
switch and has no effect on other options
.br
.B \-s
and
.B \-e
should preferably be used together with
.B \-t
.SH General backup information
If your backup directory is /my/dvd/backup/dir/ specified with the
.B \-o
flag, then dvdbackup will create a DVD\-Video structure under
/my/dvd/backup/dir/TITLE_NAME/VIDEO_TS.
If the
.B -o
flag is omitted, the current directory is used.

Since the title is "unique" you can use the same directory for all your DVD
backups. If it happens to have a generic title dvdbackup will exit with a return
value of 2, and you will need to specify a title name with the
.B \-n
switch.

dvdbackup will always mimic the original DVD\-Video structure. Hence if you e.g.
use the
.B \-M
(mirror) you will get an exact duplicate of the original. This means
that every file will have the same size as the original one. Likewise also for
the
.B \-F
and the
.B \-T
switch.
.PP
If you rerun dvdbackup against an existing mirror, you can use
.B \-\-cmp
to validate the files without rewriting them. Pair it with
.B \-\-gap-map
to print a 20x60 ASCII polar plot that highlights sectors that read back as
zero or were missing locally. Rows correspond to the radius from the inner hub
to the outer edge; columns approximate the angle around the disc, making radial
versus tangential scratches easy to spot. The summary line also prints the
flagged-sector percentage so you can gauge the overall damage at a glance.
Gap-map is read-only and will refuse
to execute alongside
.B \-\-gaps
since both options expect exclusive control over gap handling.

However the
.B \-t
and (\fB\-t \-s\fR/\fB\-e\fR)
switch is a bit different the titles sectors
will be written to the original file but not at the same offset as the original
one since there may be gaps in the cell structure that we do not fill.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BI dvdbackup\ \-I
gathers information about the DVD.
/dev/dvd is the default device tried - you need
to use 
.B -i
if your device name is different.
.TP
.BI dvdbackup\ \-M
backups the whole DVD.
This action creates a valid DVD\-Video structure that can be burned to a
DVD\-/+R(W) with help of genisoimage.
.TP
.BI dvdbackup\ \-F
backups the main feature of the DVD.
This action creates a valid DVD\-Video structure of the feature title set.
Note that this will not result in an image immediately watchable - you will need
another program like dvdauthor to help construct the IFO files.

dvdbackup defaults to get the 16:9 version of the main feature if a 4:3 is also
present on the DVD.  To get the 4:3 version use
.B \-a
0.

dvdbackup makes it best to make a intelligent guess what is the main feature of
the DVD \- in case it fails please send a bug report.
.TP
.BI dvdbackup\ \-T \ 2
backups the title set
.I 2
i.e. all VTS_02_X.XXX files.
This action creates a valid DVD\-Video structure of the
specified title set.  Note that this will not result in an image immediately
watchable - you will need another program like dvdauthor to help construct the
IFO files.
.TP
.BI dvdbackup\ \-t \ 1
backups the title 1.
This action backups all cells that forms the specified title. Note that there
can be sector gaps in between one cell and another. dvdbackup will backup all
sectors that belongs to the title but will skip sectors that are not a part of
the title.
.TP
\fBdvdbackup \-t \fI1\fB \-s \fI20\fB \-e \fI25
This action will backup chapter 20 to 25 in title 1, as with the backup of a
title there can be sector gaps between one chapter (cell) and on other.
dvdbackup will backup all sectors that belongs to the title 1 chapter 20 to 25
but will skip sectors that are not a part of the title 1 chapter 20 to 25.

To backup a single chapter e.g. chapter 20 do
.B \-s
20
.B \-e
20.
.br
To backup from chapter 20 to the end chapter use only
.B \-s
20.
.br
To backup to chapter 20 from the first chapter use only
.B \-e
20.

You can skip the
.B \-t
switch and let the program guess the title although it is
not recommended.

If you specify a chapter that is higher than the last chapter of the title
dvdbackup will truncate to the highest chapter of the title.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
on success
.TP
.B 1
on usage error
.TP
.B 2
on title name error
.TP
.B \-1
on failure
.SH AUTHORS
dvdbackup was written by Olaf Beck <olaf_sc@yahoo.com>, but is now maintained by
Benjamin Drung <benjamin.drung@gmail.com> and Stephen Gran <sgran@debian.org>.
This manual page was written by Stephen Gran <sgran@debian.org>.
